Well today I'd like to work on the hands.
I think I'd like the fingernails to be more like claws.
But I do want to go over how you would create just normal human fingernails first.
I'll just do one like that and then I'll start on the longer claws for the character.
So right now he's up five point two million tries.
So as I move him around there's a bit of a delay.
So what I'm going to do is come back to my layer or just the character is.
So there he is and I've removed the feet because I didn't need them and they were kind of poking through
the boots the way I wanted them.
So I just deleted them because we're never going to see his feet.
Now for the fingers here there's still a ways to go here.
I'm not completely done with the fingers by any means.
They're kind of chunky and flat and not really there yet.
I do have a multi resolution modifier on the object here.
And I do need to create some wrinkles for the top of the fingers as well as maybe creases or pads for
the thumbs.
So there's more work that needs to be done here.
I know but let's just work on one of the fingernails for now.
So with the object selected Let's go ahead and go into sculped mode over here and let me just make sure
under the sculped tools that our symmetry is on and it is not.
So let me turn the X mirror back on here I'm going to come up here to the sculped draw tool.
Actually no let's go to the mask tool because we're going to do this just like we have for many of the
other parts of the character and mask out an area for the fingernail to work with.
I think I'm going to get rid of the rest of the character or at least hide it away for now.
And with the H key click and drag and hide these away.
This area here like that and so that will help me see what I'm doing a little bit better here.
I'll also hover over one of the fingers and press alt F and that will center up the view on that finger.
And now as I zoom in and rotate it will rotate around that one point.
So now let's take a look at just working on this finger right here.
And notice I've hidden everything except the other hand.
You've got to keep the other part of the model visible if you're going to use the mirror option in the
sculped tools.
All right so now let's paint the area that's going to be the fingernail.
So I'm going to start something like this or use the Control key to erase some over here and maybe erase
a little here and let me take a look at the multi rez modify here.
I could bring this up one subdivision level right now as I'm working.
And that would allow me to get a little bit cleaner line on the mask.
All right so there is our fingernail and what I'll do now is press control to invert the selection.
And now I'll come back to maybe my inflate brush and let's increase the size here.
And now I can come in and just begin to inflate the area inside the mask here.
All right.
Let's see if that's enough.
Go ahead and press control to invert the selection again.
And now what we can do is come back here and I'm going to use the sculped DRob rush for this one and
I want to just sculpt in around that mask for the cuticle here so I'll just try and bring this up a
bit.
Around the fingernail
and maybe even a little bit tighter.
Right in around the mask.
Then what we could do.
Now I'm going to go ahead and press him to clear it just to see how we're doing so him and then we've
got just a hint of a fingernail there so far.
We could certainly do more there.
So a press command easy to undo control.
And I'll come back here and inflate it out just a little bit more.
And now I can take this part of the thing.
Now I can take the fingernail and go to my grab brush and very gently.
I'm going to take this and I'm just going to move it up just a little bit up into the cuticle see how
this works.
So I click and drag and just move it up and tighten it up around the cuticle just a little bit.
And I'll also come in here now just smooth back that piece that's going to go up under the cuticle some.
All right.
So if we then remove the mask by pressing alt M and see that we've got the beginnings of a fingernail
here I can move this skin area up a bit to kind of collapse it up into the fingernail and smooth some
of that back but you can see you can get a general fingernail kind of kind of a look from that.
Now I'd rather have a claw type fingernail on this character if we go back and take a look at the reference
images.
You can see we have kind of claws for the character so I think instead of doing it this way I'd like
to actually work on building out and inserting in a claw.
So I think what I'll do is just actually work on one in its own layer build up using polygon modeling
and then bring it up and put it into place.
So I'm going to come over here to a new layer now I've found a couple of reference images that I think
I can use.
Let me open up U-V Ed. here
and bring in that reference image.
Turn on the images here.
And I think this one here looks pretty good to me.
Just to get the basic shape of the fingernail and that's about the length I'd like them I think.
I think first of all I'm just going to begin with a polygon plane and that will pop in right into the
center of the grid and I will frame that up.
With the period key on the numpad I think I'll turn off the mat caps hit the N key to bring up the properties
panel and just turn off the cap here and hit the in key again.
Now what I'd like to do is split this in half.
So I'm in a tab into edit mode and go to the loop cut tool by pressing control r and I'll just hover
over here and hit enter once and hit enter again and that will ensure that that edge is right down the
center of that polygon so I'll hit control tab and go to face mode.
And I'll select this face and I'll just delete it.
I'll hit the x key and delete that face.
Now I've got this half of a Polygram come over to the modifiers window click add modifier and I'll choose
mirror.
So now whatever I do on one side of this object will happen on the other side.
So if I go into vertex mode and hit the key and move around you can see that's going to mirror it on
the other side.
So will Let's begin working on these nails.
I think what I'm going to do is have this be the cuticle up here and it'll come down here for the nail
like that.
So let's give it a try.
I'm just going to move this a bit like that and I will maybe extrude this out and hit the e key.
Now go ahead and click and just move it out with the normal transform tool here.
And maybe been that in a bit.
So there we have the part that's going to go up against the cuticle.
I'll go ahead and select this edge and let's just I think I'll go to the top view I'll hit the 7 key
on the keyboard and hit the five key then to go into orthographic view.
So I know I'm looking at it from the top.
I'll hit the and click and I'll extrude down like that.
Maybe one more time.
And I'll bring these in just a hair.
That hit me and extrude again.
And now these should be getting a little bit more pointy see how this works.
Yeah.
So I think something like that I'll tumble around hit the five key to go back to perspective view and
I'll just select this edge by pressing control and clicking on this point here and that selects that
whole edge between those two points and I'll just bring it up a bit.
Just so it curves a little bit
like that and I'll just do a little point pulling to get this shaped more like a fingernail
Well let's go ahead and put it in place and see how it's going to look actually on the character and
maybe that'll help us finalize the shape of it.
So I'm going to go ahead and apply the mirror or.
So now it's all one piece.
And let's bring back the characters who will shift click that first layer right here.
This in here I've changed the transformation from global to local so that the transform manipulators
are in line with the object.
And then I can just slide it on like that.
So now what I'd like to do is use the mask tool to mask around here.
Invert the mask and then flatten this area that's underneath the nail a bit.
So I'll choose the character.
And let's go back into sculped mode.
And I'll go to the mask to all reduce the size of the brush a bit.
And I just want to paint it right around here like this.
So now you can see that I'll just show that.
So now you can see that I've got that area painted out and now I'll just go to the Flaten tool and let's
see if I can just flatten this down a bit.
I may even want to cut it in.
So I'll come back to the sculpt draw a brush and press control and see if I can cut it in a bit.
All right.
So let's look at the fingernail again.
Let's invert the selection with control.
And now I'll bring that object back in just a little bit more.
So and let's sculpt around that.
Now now if I hit the F key get that a little bit smaller.
Let's see if I can kind of Bulge the cuticle out around that fingernail a bit increased the strength
and we go
so now that we've kind of embedded that nail into there.
What I'm going to do is probably use the solidify modifier to thicken that up.
And also we'll use the sculp tools to kind of create the grain of the fingernail on there as well.
So we've got two ways to create fingernails there.
Of course there's more work to be done.
There's a lot of cleanup and also some detail work for the wrinkles of the fingers.